have you seen what's going on with
commercial real estate right now it's
falling but it has a risk of plummeting
and this is going on all over the place
in today's video we're going to look at
what's going on with commercial real
estate how that connects in with the
debt Market overall and of course the
risk to the financial system you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you first thing we're going to do
we're going to see what's going on then
we're going to understand why that is
the case and we will finish off with
what you can do about it let's begin
blackstone's $67 billion Real Estate
Investment Trust Reit sees withdrawal
requests decline wait a minute what what
wases that mean what withdrawal request
decline how does that work well you've
got investors asking for $2 billion and
what happened here well they limited
withdrawals for an 11th straight month
so for the last last year Blackstone one
of the biggest companies out there have
told their investors you cannot pull
your money out you're holding in enough
now one of the advantages of a real
estate investment trust over you know
trying to get in with a syndicator for
instance putting your money with
somebody who invests directly in real
estate or purchases and does all that
this is has the advantage of you know
I'm liid I could just pull my money out
whenever I need it but what about when
there's a problem oh you can't pull your
money out and so that's what they're
experiencing today I have seen funds
that are go into restriction mode and
the people that have their money in or
or like the advisers who are holding on
to people's cash and they decided oh I'm
going to put my client's money in this
and they are restricted they are Furious
and rightfully so wouldn't you be upset
if they said oh yeah you remember your
life savings that you put into this fund
can't get it but you see the prices
falling falling falling falling and you
can't touch it this is why we need to
have our ducks in a row we need to have
our stuff measured out and ready because
the the system that we are dealing with
right now requires us to know much more
than the average person all right the
problem we are experiencing is Global
with higher rates exposing underlying
problems that's the focus that's the
center right now you increase interest
rates suddenly all these problems come
up it's svb yes that's one but
everything else has connected everything
and we only see that when the rates are
high look when the rates were low people
were buying jpegs pictures on the
computer screen of monkeys and they were
paying hundreds of thousands of dollars
millions of dollars and not only that we
were told that anybody who didn't agree
with that was stupid I mean that's the
world we live in when you bring interest
rates down monkeys pictures of of
digital monkeys of pixelated monkeys are
worth a lot of money so what can I tell
you here what can you learn from that
the next time interest rates go down by
the biggest garbage crap that you can
and I'm I'm not even
kidding that's how crazy this is it's
going to be worse than last time it's
going to be worse and that's sad that's
sad to me okay it's
pathetic uh lowering rates needed but
might come too late okay and that's the
thing was that we're dealing with right
here and now you remember we work yeah
they're still around they skipped a a
$95 million interest payment uhoh oh
that's right they're just getting the
grace period and they'll be able to pay
it back oh I'm sure this is another
player in the space imagine they had all
of this commercial real estate they
bought a lot of it they were a huge
buyer and now they have said
specifically we are going to get rid of
a lot of our locations we'll keep the
ones that people are still going at but
the underperforming ones they're gone
that's going to open up a a lot of space
more space in commercial real estate
commercial real estate debt maturities
2.5 trillion dollar in the next five
years and that's going to be at higher
rates of course so we see this and just
in the next year you know it is a big um
amount as well looking at this all
property prices specifically commercial
real estate is not residential and it
has already come down 10% on a national
level but you look at areas like San
Franc Francisco and others that has
really taken a hit so we will see how
that goes look at the prices just
breaking it down I thought it was
interesting that Apartments were
actually affected now they did run up
way too high that's that's clear but you
can see that as well Apartments I do
think that that is the number one place
despite this the prices you got to
understand your Market of course but
there's going to be more and more and
more renters you got to look at this 10
years out 20 years out whatever uh
looking at down the line the average
person today that's a young person they
will not have a desire to own a home
they don't want to even have a desire to
own a car they're going to get their
phone on their app they're going to
touch two buttons the autonomous robot
vehicle is going to appear there they're
going to get in there they're going to
go off when they're done with this town
that they've been living in the city
that they've been living in they could
just give the keys back here ago I
didn't own any of that furniture I'm
just going to take my you know my laptop
or whatever and I'm out that's the way
that the future is progressing so
knowing that it means that commercial
real estate
specifically uh looking at this with you
know these apartment buildings even you
know there's these other things like the
co-op type buildings that are more like
dormitories and things okay that's
definitely possible um but in general
apartment buildings multi- family real
estate it's called multif family real
estate it it you know it's technically
residential in that respect but it's
considered to be commercial real estate
so understand the distinction in between
those two it falls in the commercial
side but it's for residental okay all
right looking at this transaction volume
has fallen off a cliff and for good
reason because uh you know businesses
investors they're not getting into this
right now they don't want anything to do
with this because they realize that this
is getting very bad it's getting very
bad so we will see what happens I'm want
to talk about China I'm also going to
talk about Canada but before we do have
you found this video informative if you
have hit that thumbs up button it's
right down below and when you do that it
supports the channel so please do that
right now here we go looking at China
property crisis voted as the biggest
risk for China's stocks so of course
that's an important thing uh not just
for the Market in general like the the
property sector it affects everything it
affects everything and so number one
overall in China does China's property
bust make financial crisis inevitable oh
no no no it doesn't that's what they say
here in this Wall Street Journal article
real estate as a percentage of Chinese
Banks loan book and so you see that uh
you know the developer loans are a
smaller sum compared to the individual
Residential Mortgages okay and that's
what they're highlighting here I'm just
showing you that as well as Canada's
housing body says that it will take $1
trillion to meet their goals they're
going to have somehow a trillion dollars
to put in and invest not necessarily the
government but a trillion dollars needs
to go in to fix the problems of the day
wow you know they're not going to do
that I mean it's just not going to
happen and yet that's where we are at
there is so much already going into it
now you increase interest rates we got a
problem there's not enough homes being
built you've got this issue where quite
frankly they're trying to change the
zoning laws but do it in such a small
way that is you know it's not enough it
is absolutely not enough there's so many
fundamental problems not just inside
Canada but elsewhere where they have
applied all of the infrastructure in
these small areas that just cannot
support all the people and it's a matter
of fact all the jobs are in one area all
the you know the infrastructure you
can't do that and that's why we had a
huge problem a couple years ago and they
fixed it wink wink fixed it with
printing a heck of a lot of money now
that creates inflation and you only stab
your own citizens right in the back when
you do that of
course maybe it's all intentional and so
we need to discuss what you can do about
it you've seen what's happening you've
seen why it's
happening and now we need to talk about
what you can do avoid commercial real
estate except for a contrarian bet so if
you want to take a big risk absolutely
you can go into it but don't think that
this is somehow safe and secure retail
and office watch
out any deals can be had for much
cheaper right now because you know that
they are dealing with a problem they
have way too much debt in this field and
so you can come in and say hey I need to
rent this place maybe I want to open a
business here what kind of deals can you
give me and then watch the exposure as
the domino effect is evidence you may
have no direct exposure to commercial
real estate but watch the companies you
invest in maybe your own personal
business you operate or the business
that you work for look at how they've
been exposed to Commercial Real Estate
retail and office I think it is pretty
significant okay so those are just three
things we'll talk about more on future
episodes if you're liking these videos
if you're already subscribed I know
people get unsubscribed every day
automatically by YouTube but for those
who are still here then it's important
of course to just follow along because I
will bring you the latest and greatest
and if you're like I got to start from
zero I got to start from scratch I need
to know all the basics that's what
Compass is your financial Journey starts
here and guess what it's free no email
no ads no pay wall there's nothing just
come to the website the money gps.com
click on Compass and this is what you
see and you go down down down down
there's a bunch of these really short
videos and you're going to get it all
the money gps.com here we go comment of
the day Dave Hendrick says I refuse to
spend any money at a restaurant that
incorporates robotics I'll eat at home
first I want to let you know Dave
um thank you for the comment by the way
that there's going to be a time in the
near future where you will not be able
to go to a restaurant unless it's like
the high high end and you'll you're just
going to not get it a human I mean it's
just there may be none left okay and
it's coming fast and so that's the
circumstance we are dealing with right
now today jobs are being replaced Ai and
Automation and it's coming as fast as
they can do it So the faster they can
get this thing out I'm telling you
they're going to implement it it's
already happening they're in a testing
phase so that's what we're dealing with
you got to get your stuff in order right
now today I appreciate you being here
and I'll see you on the next one take
care